Add blog post about new package submission process (#108)
Bioconductor/biocblog: posts/2026-06-15-new-submission-process-with-Runiverse/index.qmd

---
title: "New Package Submission Process"
description: |

>   The SPB for new incoming package submissions to Bioconductor is replaced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The Single Package Builder (SPB) previously used for new Bioconductor package submissions has been replaced.
```

author:
  - name: Lori Shepherd-Kern
    url: https://github.com/lshep
date: 2026-06-15
categories:
  - Bioconductor
  - R-universe
  - Infrastructure
  - GitHub Actions
  - Developer Engagement
  - New Submissions
  - bioconductor-evolution
image: "featured-image.jpg"
format:
  html:
    toc: true
---

## Introduction

> Bioconductor is moving towards using R-universe for it's daily build system. See

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bioconductor is moving towards using R-universe for its daily build system. See our
```

previous blog post [Collaborating between Bioconductor and R-universe on
Development of Common
Infrastructure](https://blog.bioconductor.org/posts/2026-04-08-r-universe-collaboration/). As
we move in this direction it was also necessary to update the submission process
for Bioconductor packages. While the daily builders are still transitioning, the
new submission process location is now live. The new system utilizes GitHub
Actions to trigger review milestones and R-Universe as the build/check

> backend. The new system is a smoother experience; It is more automated and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
backend. The new system provides a smoother experience; it is more automated and
```

avoids administrative steps that have historically bottlenecked the review
process.

## Information

#### Location:

The new location for submitting new packages to Bioconductor for review is
[BiocContributions](https://github.com/Bioconductor/BiocContributions).  This
replaces the old location at `Bioconductor/Contributions`. 

#### Documentation

There is documentation on [What to
Expect](https://github.com/Bioconductor/BiocContributions/blob/devel/docs/submitters.md)
as well as a detailed [Slide
Deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1EK2wsDoRbtVGECdYC1GU5nGtYkN-h_7R-on-CSUC6CQ/edit?slide=id.p#slide=id.p).

There is also a [FAQ](https://github.com/Bioconductor/BiocContributions/blob/devel/docs/FAQs.md) for commonly asked questions, concerns, or
troubleshooting.

If you need to report an issue with the new system, please open an Issue on the

> [BiocSubmissionProcess](https://github.com/BiocStaging/BiocSubmissionProcess)

Reviewer: this link gives 404

Author: https://github.com/BiocStaging/BiocSubmissionProcess  is active and reachable - This should be okay

Reviewer: maybe permissions need changing? 
as I still get 404, see attached
<img width="1443" height="684" alt="Screenshot 2026-06-15 at 13 04 13" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/736497ad-6e80-40b4-a6b9-ca604a9c79a4" />

GitHub repository. 

#### What about Bioconductor/Contributions

The submission location at `Bioconductor/Contributions` has been frozen and will

> no longer accept new issues. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
no longer accept new issues. 
```

[BiocContributions](https://github.com/Bioconductor/BiocContributions) replaces
this location.  If you already submitted to the old location, if you are
assigned a reviewer, your review will finish there. If you have not been
assigned a reviewer yet, we will be posting shortly to close out your submission
and move to the new location.

#### Easier Reproducibility

One of the frequent comments we receive is how do we reproduce the results of
the build reports Bioconductor creates.  The switch to using R-universe as the
building and checking backend allows for a reproducible testing environment. Any
maintainer can apply R-Universe checking on their personal GitHub repository for
a Bioconductor package by following these
[instructions](https://docs.r-universe.dev/bioconductor/#debugging-the-ci). This
allows for a maintainer to test before submitting to Bioconductor and testing
any future changes before pushing directly to Bioconductor.

#### Thank you!

> We appreicate you patience and understanding as we transition to the new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We appreciate your patience and understanding as we transition to the new
```
